#ZERO TRUST ARCHITECTURE - Trust Nothing, Verify Everything

Continuous Verification - Verify the user every time they try to get access to a resource
Least Privilege - Give users access to the resources they need, no more, no less
Assume Breach - Assume the system is breached, implement encryption so even if an attacker is able to access your data they are not able to decipher it


##Tools

Verify Explicitly
[Continuous Verification]
Multi Step Identity Check
First Line Defense - Stronger authentication after login
1. MFA - e.g. okta

Micro Segmentation
[Assume Breach]
-Breaking down the network into segments - allows granular control of traffic
e.g. VPN, VMWARE

2. Identity and Access Management (IAM)
[Enforces Least Privilege]
Microsoft Azure Active Identity
Update user roles and change them as job roles change

4. Encryption Everywhere
[Assume Breach]
Even if data is intercepted it can not be read
Bcrypt
AWS - Encryption


-Continuous Monitoring and Analytics
[Assume Breach]
e.g.. Splunk 
Crowdstrike Falcon


##Challenges

1. Legacy Systems Compatibility
Costly and time consuming, some systems are not able to integrate with zero trust tools such as tools that use 
continuous monitoring and analysis

2. Cultural Resistance
Introduces more friction - Having to authenticate multiple times a day can feel like a burden
especially for people that are used to logging in one time a day

3. Complexity
Detailed planning and coordination

4. Cost and Resource Investment
Financial investment in tools and updating legacy systems, might require more staff, training staff etc


##How to Get Started with Zero Trust
1. Start with Identity and Access Management (IAM) - who are the people using your product and what
level of access should they have
Implement MFA
Look at least privilege access - employees should only have access to what they need to do their job, no more no less


2. Prioritize High-Risk Areas
What is most important to protect. Think what are the most high value areas
Use micro segmentation - implement granular access controls, continuous monitoring, encryption, etc.


3. Implement continuous monitoring
Use tools that provide insight into user behavior and access - start by developing these tools in your highest risk areas.

4. Adopt a Phased Approach
Focus on most critical assets and gradually build a security model to cover your system
